# SNHU-CS-330
Portfolio containing the work I did in SNHU class CS-330: Comp Graphics and Visualization

## How do I approach designing software?
My approach to designing software has always been very object-oriented with a single main loop of exectution, but my experience with OpenGL has shown me how a library or program can be designed as one big state machine. However, with the project showcased in this portfolio I mainly used the main gameloop programming pattern as shown by the book [Game Programming Patterns](http://gameprogrammingpatterns.com/contents.html). I also used the state machine pattern in my functions for handling mouse and keyboard input. These design patterns can be applied on much of my future work, particularly the state machine pattern. Many large enterprise code bases have a unit commonly called the "business logic" that follows the state machine pattern.

## How do I approach developing programs?
A new developement strategy I used while working on this project was using feature branches with git. This allowed me to manage the changes to my code base better and it was easy to roll back changes such that they only affected the parts of the code base that is relevant to the feature being implemented by the branch. This also helped me with iteration in my project, as each new feature implemented iterates on the previous working build of the project. As I completed my milestones I eventually developed a basic template project for each assignment and I would start each assignment with that project template as a scaffolding. However with certain assignments, like the assignment for rendering a textured pyramid, I instead iterated on my previous project of rending a pyramid with static colors.

## How can computer science help me in reaching my goals
My goals for the future are very computer science centric, so my new insights into computational graphics and visualization will greatly help me with my future educational and professional goals.

On a personal and educational level, I am very interested in how video games are developed and my new skills with 3D graphics, coordinate transformations using matrices, and shader programs will be essential in my future endeavours with game development. And my further experience with state machines and developing in the C++ language will help me in my path towards completing my Computer Science degree. The greater understanding I gained of calculations on matrices and vectors will be greatly helpful with future mathematics courses.

On a professional level, the knowledge I gained in this course will likely be used indirectly. It is not often 3D graphics and visualization will be used in most applications of enterprise programming, but the concepts I learned about OpengGL and graphics programming in general are the standards by which 2D graphics libraries are built upon. And who knows? Maybe I won't end up developing at an insurance company or a similar application of my Computer Science knowledge. Maybe I will work at a company that develops realtime physics simulations and visualizations or developing new applications of VR technology in accessibilty or training/educational purposes.
